-In this section,
we will learn service management
with SYSTEMD by creating
the service unit from scratch.
We will then look at the tools
used by SYSTEMD,
specifically systemctl
and journalctl.
We will close this section
with a hands-on lab exercise.
Bob provides his list of requirements
to Dave.
He has a shell script
called project-mercury.sh
located at /user/bin.
This has to be started
in the background as a service
and enabled to start during the boot.
This script starts his python
Django application on the laptop.
The application however,
depends on the Postgres Database.
The Postgres service should be up
and running before the python application
can be started successfully.
A service account
by the name of project_mercury
has already been created in the system.
The service should make use
of this user to run.
If the application fails for any reason,
it should restart automatically.
If it fails again,
Bob wants to ensure that the system tries
to bring it up after waiting for 10 seconds.
Bob should, however,
be able to shut down the service himself.
In this case,
it should not restart automatically.
The application events including start,
stop, and failures
should be logged in the system somewhere.
This is important so that the reason
for the failure can be investigated later.
Bob uses the graphical target
as a default on his laptop.
The service should start with all these
conditions and the graphical target.
Dave looks at his list and says,
"That's a lot of requirements.
To make it easier, let's take one condition
at a time and build on it."
He continues with the explanation,
"To run this command in the background,
we have to define it as a service.
For this, we will create a service unit file.
This unit file, let's call it
project-mercury.service needs to be created
under /etc/systemd/systemdirectory.
Let's start with the command
that you need to run in the background
which, in this case, is
/usr/bin/project-mercury.sh.
The most basic service unit
can be built with just this information.
The body of this service unit looks like this.
We have a section called service
which is enclosed between square brackets
and underneath,
we have a derivative called ExecStart
which is used to run a command
or an application.
Since this is a bash script,
we will specify the command as
/bin/bash followed by the absolute path
to the script as the argument.
That's it.
A service definition can be created
with just these two lines.
To run this service in the background,
issue the command systemctl
start projectMercury.service.
You would have to use pseudo at this time
as the service is set to run
as the root user by default.
Your script
should now be running in the background.
To check this, you can issue the command
systemctl status projectmercury.service.
It should be in a running state.
That's one of the requirements completed,
but we are not done.
Sure this service runs in the background,
but it cannot be enabled
to start automatically during boot yet.
Let's fix that by updating the service unit.
First, let's stop the service using systemctl
stop projectmercury.service command.
To allow this service to be enabled during
boot, add another section called install.
Just as we did with the service section,
the keyword install should be enclosed
between square brackets.
Under this, use the WantedBy directive
whose value should be the systemd target
or run level you want to enable it for.
Since you are running in graphical mode,
we will set the value to graphical.target.
One more requirement is complete.
Let's add the service account to be used
to start the service instead of root,
which is the default.
To do this, add another directive
under the service section.
The directive name is user and we can assign
the value of project_mercury to it.
We can now build on this and add a couple
more directives based on the requirements.
Use the restart derivative which defines
how and when to restart the service.
Set the value of this derivative
to on-failure.
This will ensure that the system attempts
to restart the service
should it fail for some reason.
Since we have set a restart derivative,
we can use the RestartSec derivative
to set the time in seconds to wait before
the system attempts to restart it.
We will set this to 10.
Finally, with systemd, the service events
are automatically logged.
This requirement is automatically taken
of without any additional configuration.
Now we can start the service again,
but before we do that,
there is an opportunity
to make it even better.
Since the python Django application
depends on the Postgres service,
we can define a dependency that makes sure
that our new service is started
only after the Postgres database is ready.
To do this, we need to add another section
to the service file called Unit.
Under this section, use the After derivative
and set its value to Postgressql.service.
Within this section, you can also add
the description of the service
and any documentation you may have about it.
These are not mandatory
but considered to be a good practice.
Now we are ready to start this service again.
For the system to detect
the changes we made in the file,
run the systemctl deamon-reload command.
To summarize,
all your requirements can be mapped
to specific sections of the service file
by making use of derivatives
which would look like this.
The dependency on the Postgres Database
goes to the unit section.
The requirements specifying the service
to start in graphical target
goes to the install section.
Everything else goes to the service section.
Bob makes a note of the steps
with the intention of replicating it
in the dev server later.